bridges/README.md, before:

# LA-Mesh Bridge Services

Communication bridges that connect the LoRa mesh network to external services.

## Architecture

```
LA-Mesh Nodes ──(LoRa)──→ MeshAdv-Mini HAT ──(SPI/UART)──→ Raspberry Pi
                                                                │
                                                          ┌─────┴─────┐
                                                          │meshtasticd│
                                                          └─────┬─────┘
                                                                │ MQTT
                                                          ┌─────┴─────┐
                                                    ┌─────┴──┐  ┌──┴─────┐
                                                    │SMS     │  │Email   │
                                                    │Bridge  │  │Bridge  │
                                                    └────┬───┘  └───┬────┘
                                                         │          │
                                                    Twilio API   SMTP
```

## Bridges

### SMS Bridge (`sms/`)
- Relays mesh messages to SMS via Twilio
- Mesh users send: `SMS:+12075551234 Your message here`
- Requires Twilio account with phone number

### Email Bridge (`email/`)
- Relays mesh messages to email via SMTP
- Mesh users send: `EMAIL:user@example.com Your message here`
- Supports any SMTP provider (SendGrid, Gmail SMTP, self-hosted)

### MQTT Configuration (`mqtt/`)
- MQTT broker config for bridge interconnection
- Meshtasticd publishes JSON messages to MQTT topics
- Bridges subscribe and relay to external services

## Deployment

### Prerequisites
- Raspberry Pi 4 with MeshAdv-Mini HAT
- Raspbian OS with meshtasticd installed
- Mosquitto MQTT broker (`sudo apt install mosquitto`)
- Python 3.10+

### Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Install dependencies
pip install paho-mqtt twilio python-dotenv

# 2. Configure bridges
cp bridges/sms/bridge.env.template /opt/lamesh/bridges/sms/.env
cp bridges/email/bridge.env.template /opt/lamesh/bridges/email/.env
# Edit .env files with your credentials

# 3. Install systemd services
sudo cp bridges/systemd/*.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable lamesh-sms-bridge lamesh-email-bridge
sudo systemctl start lamesh-sms-bridge lamesh-email-bridge

# 4. Check status
sudo systemctl status lamesh-sms-bridge
sudo journalctl -u lamesh-sms-bridge -f
```

### Log Location
- SMS bridge: `/var/log/lamesh/sms-bridge.log`
- Email bridge: `/var/log/lamesh/email-bridge.log`
- meshtasticd: `journalctl -u meshtasticd`
- MQTT: `journalctl -u mosquitto`

Commit message:

feat: curriculum routes, justfile-first flash pipeline, all guides linkable
Epic 3 implementation:
- Add 12 new Svelte routes for curriculum (mesh-basics, sdr, security, tails)
  and guides (bench-testing, developing, firmware-switching, gpg,
  key-management, node-deployment, solar-relay, stealth-mode)
- Rewrite firmware flashing guide: justfile provision pipeline is now the
  recommended method (Method 1), web flasher demoted to Method 3
- Add checksum verification and version parity documentation
- Convert all guide index cards from <div> to <a> tags (12/12 linkable)
- Replace all Twilio references with generic SMS gateway placeholders
- Harden flash scripts: esptool write-flash, SHA256 verification, v2.7.15+
- Update firmware manifest to v2.7.15 with CVE fixes
- Add workshop announcement to homepage hero
- Remove unused CSS selectors causing build warnings
- Replace "Coming in Week 2" placeholders with cross-reference links

Site builds with zero errors and zero warnings.

bridges/README.md, after:

# LA-Mesh Bridge Services

**Project Status: In Development** -- SMS and email bridges are functional prototypes. SMS gateway provider is TBD.

Communication bridges that connect the LoRa mesh network to external services.

## Architecture

```
LA-Mesh Nodes ──(LoRa)──→ MeshAdv-Mini HAT ──(SPI/UART)──→ Raspberry Pi
                                                                │
                                                          ┌─────┴─────┐
                                                          │meshtasticd│
                                                          └─────┬─────┘
                                                                │ MQTT
                                                          ┌─────┴─────┐
                                                    ┌─────┴──┐  ┌──┴─────┐
                                                    │SMS     │  │Email   │
                                                    │Bridge  │  │Bridge  │
                                                    └────┬───┘  └───┬────┘
                                                         │          │
                                                    SMS Gateway  SMTP
                                                    (TBD)
```

## Bridges

### SMS Bridge (`sms/`) -- In Development

- Relays mesh messages to/from SMS
- Mesh users send: `SMS:+12075551234 Your message here`
- SMS gateway provider TBD -- evaluating open-source options (gammu-smsd, Android SMS gateway)

### Email Bridge (`email/`)

- Relays mesh messages to email via SMTP
- Mesh users send: `EMAIL:user@example.com Your message here`
- Supports any SMTP provider (SendGrid, Gmail SMTP, self-hosted)
- GPG signature verification on incoming emails

### MQTT Configuration (`mqtt/`)

- MQTT broker config for bridge interconnection
- Meshtasticd publishes JSON messages to MQTT topics
- Bridges subscribe and relay to external services

## Deployment

### Prerequisites

- Raspberry Pi 4 with MeshAdv-Mini HAT
- Raspbian OS with meshtasticd installed
- Mosquitto MQTT broker (`sudo apt install mosquitto`)
- Python 3.10+

### Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Install dependencies
pip install paho-mqtt python-dotenv

# 2. Configure bridges
cp bridges/sms/bridge.env.template /opt/lamesh/bridges/sms/.env
cp bridges/email/bridge.env.template /opt/lamesh/bridges/email/.env
# Edit .env files with your credentials

# 3. Install systemd services
sudo cp bridges/systemd/*.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable lamesh-sms-bridge lamesh-email-bridge
sudo systemctl start lamesh-sms-bridge lamesh-email-bridge

# 4. Check status
sudo systemctl status lamesh-sms-bridge
sudo journalctl -u lamesh-sms-bridge -f
```

### Log Location

- SMS bridge: `/var/log/lamesh/sms-bridge.log`
- Email bridge: `/var/log/lamesh/email-bridge.log`
- meshtasticd: `journalctl -u meshtasticd`
- MQTT: `journalctl -u mosquitto`
